site/content/en/docs/formats/ade20k2017.md, before:

---
title: 'ADE20k (v2017)'
linkTitle: 'ADE20k (v2017)'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original ADE20K 2017 dataset is available
[here](https://www.kaggle.com/soumikrakshit/ade20k).

The consistency set (for checking the annotation consistency)
is available [here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/ADE20K_2017_05_30_consistency.zip).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `occluded` (boolean): whether the object is occluded by another object
- other arbitrary boolean attributes, which can be specified
  in the annotation file `<image_name>_atr.txt`

## Import ADE20K 2017 dataset

A Datumaro project with an ADE20k source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format ade20k2017 <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

ade20k_dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2017')
```

ADE20K dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
├── subset1/
│   └── super_label_1/
│       ├── img1.jpg
│       ├── img1_atr.txt
│       ├── img1_parts_1.png
│       ├── img1_seg.png
│       ├── img2.jpg
│       ├── img2_atr.txt
│       └── ...
└── subset2/
    ├── img3.jpg
    ├── img3_atr.txt
    ├── img3_parts_1.png
    ├── img3_parts_2.png
    ├── img4.jpg
    ├── img4_atr.txt
    ├── img4_seg.png
    └── ...
```

The mask images `<image_name>_seg.png` contain information about the object
class segmentation masks and also separate each class into instances.
The channels R and G encode the objects class masks.
The channel B encodes the instance object masks.

The mask images `<image_name>_parts_N.png` contain segmentation masks for parts
of objects, where N is a number indicating the level in the part hierarchy.

The annotation files `<image_name>_atr.txt` describe the content of each
image. Each line in the text file contains:
- column 1: instance number,
- column 2: part level (0 for objects),
- column 3: occluded (1 for true),
- column 4: original raw name (might provide a more detailed categorization),
- column 5: class name (parsed using wordnet),
- column 6: double-quoted list of attributes, separated by commas.
Each column is separated by a `#`. See example of dataset
[here](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/assets/ade20k2017_dataset).

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an ADE20K dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports segmentation masks.

There are several ways to convert an ADE20k 2017 dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f ade20k2017 <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if ade20k2017 -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade202017')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'coco')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_ade20k2017_format.py)

Commit message:

Update documentation. Add Datumaro module to the API documentation (#647)
* add API documentation root module page with links to the original components

* added italics for headings

* fix sorting in annotation.rst

* update API docs

* update examples and resolve conflict

* update examples

site/content/en/docs/formats/ade20k2017.md, after:

---
title: 'ADE20k (v2017)'
linkTitle: 'ADE20k (v2017)'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original ADE20K 2017 dataset is available
[here](https://www.kaggle.com/soumikrakshit/ade20k).

The consistency set (for checking the annotation consistency)
is available [here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/ADE20K_2017_05_30_consistency.zip).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `occluded` (boolean): whether the object is occluded by another object
- other arbitrary boolean attributes, which can be specified
  in the annotation file `<image_name>_atr.txt`

## Import ADE20K 2017 dataset

A Datumaro project with an ADE20k source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format ade20k2017 <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

ade20k_dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2017')
```

ADE20K dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
├── subset1/
│   └── super_label_1/
│       ├── img1.jpg
│       ├── img1_atr.txt
│       ├── img1_parts_1.png
│       ├── img1_seg.png
│       ├── img2.jpg
│       ├── img2_atr.txt
│       └── ...
└── subset2/
    ├── img3.jpg
    ├── img3_atr.txt
    ├── img3_parts_1.png
    ├── img3_parts_2.png
    ├── img4.jpg
    ├── img4_atr.txt
    ├── img4_seg.png
    └── ...
```

The mask images `<image_name>_seg.png` contain information about the object
class segmentation masks and also separate each class into instances.
The channels R and G encode the objects class masks.
The channel B encodes the instance object masks.

The mask images `<image_name>_parts_N.png` contain segmentation masks for parts
of objects, where N is a number indicating the level in the part hierarchy.

The annotation files `<image_name>_atr.txt` describe the content of each
image. Each line in the text file contains:
- column 1: instance number,
- column 2: part level (0 for objects),
- column 3: occluded (1 for true),
- column 4: original raw name (might provide a more detailed categorization),
- column 5: class name (parsed using wordnet),
- column 6: double-quoted list of attributes, separated by commas.
Each column is separated by a `#`. See example of dataset
[here](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/assets/ade20k2017_dataset).

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an ADE20K dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports segmentation masks.

There are several ways to convert an ADE20k 2017 dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f ade20k2017 <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if ade20k2017 -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade202017')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'coco')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_ade20k2017_format.py)
