site/content/en/docs/formats/ade20k2020.md, before:

---
title: 'ADE20k (v2020)'
linkTitle: 'ADE20k (v2020)'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original ADE20K 2020 dataset is available
[here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/).

The consistency set (for checking the annotation consistency)
is available [here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/ADE20K_2017_05_30_consistency.zip).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `occluded` (boolean): whether the object is occluded by another object
- other arbitrary boolean attributes, which can be specified
  in the annotation file `<image_name>.json`

## Import ADE20K dataset

A Datumaro project with an ADE20k source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format ade20k2020 <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

ade20k_dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2020')
```

ADE20K dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
├── subset1/
│   ├── img1/  # directory with instance masks for img1
│   |    ├── instance_001_img1.png
│   |    ├── instance_002_img1.png
│   |    └── ...
│   ├── img1.jpg
│   ├── img1.json
│   ├── img1_seg.png
│   ├── img1_parts_1.png
│   |
│   ├── img2/  # directory with instance masks for img2
│   |    ├── instance_001_img2.png
│   |    ├── instance_002_img2.png
│   |    └── ...
│   ├── img2.jpg
│   ├── img2.json
│   └── ...
│
└── subset2/
    ├── super_label_1/
    |   ├── img3/  # directory with instance masks for img3
    |   |    ├── instance_001_img3.png
    |   |    ├── instance_002_img3.png
    |   |    └── ...
    |   ├── img3.jpg
    |   ├── img3.json
    |   ├── img3_seg.png
    |   ├── img3_parts_1.png
    |   └── ...
    |
    ├── img4/  # directory with instance masks for img4
    |   ├── instance_001_img4.png
    |   ├── instance_002_img4.png
    |   └── ...
    ├── img4.jpg
    ├── img4.json
    ├── img4_seg.png
    └── ...
```

The mask images `<image_name>_seg.png` contain information about the object
class segmentation masks and also separate each class into instances.
The channels R and G encode the objects class masks.
The channel B encodes the instance object masks.

The mask images `<image_name>_parts_N.png` contain segmentation masks for
parts of objects, where N is a number indicating the level in the part
hierarchy.

The `<image_name>` directory contains instance masks for each
object in the image, these masks represent one-channel images,
each pixel of which indicates an affinity to a specific object.

The annotation files `<image_name>.json` describe the content of each image.
See our [tests asset](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/assets/ade20k2020_dataset)
for example of this file,
or check [ADE20K toolkit](https://github.com/CSAILVision/ADE20K) for it.

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an ADE20K dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports segmentation masks.

There are several ways to convert an ADE20k dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f ade20k2020 <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f coco -o ./save_dir -- --save-images
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if ade20k2020 -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2020')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_ade20k2020_format.py)

Commit message:

Update documentation. Add Datumaro module to the API documentation (#647)
* add API documentation root module page with links to the original components

* added italics for headings

* fix sorting in annotation.rst

* update API docs

* update examples and resolve conflict

* update examples

site/content/en/docs/formats/ade20k2020.md, after:

---
title: 'ADE20k (v2020)'
linkTitle: 'ADE20k (v2020)'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original ADE20K 2020 dataset is available
[here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/).

The consistency set (for checking the annotation consistency)
is available [here](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/ADE20K_2017_05_30_consistency.zip).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `occluded` (boolean): whether the object is occluded by another object
- other arbitrary boolean attributes, which can be specified
  in the annotation file `<image_name>.json`

## Import ADE20K dataset

A Datumaro project with an ADE20k source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format ade20k2020 <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

ade20k_dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2020')
```

ADE20K dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
├── subset1/
│   ├── img1/  # directory with instance masks for img1
│   |    ├── instance_001_img1.png
│   |    ├── instance_002_img1.png
│   |    └── ...
│   ├── img1.jpg
│   ├── img1.json
│   ├── img1_seg.png
│   ├── img1_parts_1.png
│   |
│   ├── img2/  # directory with instance masks for img2
│   |    ├── instance_001_img2.png
│   |    ├── instance_002_img2.png
│   |    └── ...
│   ├── img2.jpg
│   ├── img2.json
│   └── ...
│
└── subset2/
    ├── super_label_1/
    |   ├── img3/  # directory with instance masks for img3
    |   |    ├── instance_001_img3.png
    |   |    ├── instance_002_img3.png
    |   |    └── ...
    |   ├── img3.jpg
    |   ├── img3.json
    |   ├── img3_seg.png
    |   ├── img3_parts_1.png
    |   └── ...
    |
    ├── img4/  # directory with instance masks for img4
    |   ├── instance_001_img4.png
    |   ├── instance_002_img4.png
    |   └── ...
    ├── img4.jpg
    ├── img4.json
    ├── img4_seg.png
    └── ...
```

The mask images `<image_name>_seg.png` contain information about the object
class segmentation masks and also separate each class into instances.
The channels R and G encode the objects class masks.
The channel B encodes the instance object masks.

The mask images `<image_name>_parts_N.png` contain segmentation masks for
parts of objects, where N is a number indicating the level in the part
hierarchy.

The `<image_name>` directory contains instance masks for each
object in the image, these masks represent one-channel images,
each pixel of which indicates an affinity to a specific object.

The annotation files `<image_name>.json` describe the content of each image.
See our [tests asset](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/assets/ade20k2020_dataset)
for example of this file,
or check [ADE20K toolkit](https://github.com/CSAILVision/ADE20K) for it.

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an ADE20K dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports segmentation masks.

There are several ways to convert an ADE20k dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f ade20k2020 <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f coco -o ./save_dir -- --save-images
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if ade20k2020 -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f coco -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'ade20k2020')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_ade20k2020_format.py)
