site/content/en/docs/formats/celeba.md, before:

---
title: 'CelebA'
linkTitle: 'CelebA'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original CelebA dataset is available
[here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B7EVK8r0v71pWEZsZE9oNnFzTm8?resourcekey=0-5BR16BdXnb8hVj6CNHKzLg).

Supported annotation types:
- `Label`
- `Bbox`
- `Points` (landmarks)

Supported attributes: `5_o_Clock_Shadow`, `Arched_Eyebrows`, `Attractive`,
`Bags_Under_Eyes`, `Bald`, `Bangs`, `Big_Lips`, `Big_Nose`, `Black_Hair`,
`Blond_Hair`, `Blurry Brown_Hair`, `Bushy_Eyebrows`, `Chubby`, `Double_Chin`,
`Eyeglasses`, `Goatee`, `Gray_Hair`, `Heavy_Makeup`, `High_Cheekbones`,
`Male`, `Mouth_Slightly_Open`, `Mustache Narrow_Eyes`, `No_Beard`, `Oval_Face`,
`Pale_Skin`, `Pointy_Nose`, `Receding_Hairline`, `Rosy_Cheeks`, `Sideburns Smiling`,
`Straight_Hair`, `Wavy_Hair`, `Wearing_Earrings`, `Wearing_Hat`, `Wearing_Lipstick`,
`Wearing_Necklace`, `Wearing_Necktie`, `Young`.
Attributes take values: `1` represents positive, `-1` represents negative.

## Import CelebA dataset

A Datumaro project with an CelebA source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format celeba <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

celeba_dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'celeba')
```

CelebA dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── Anno
│   ├── identity_CelebA.txt
│   ├── list_attr_celeba.txt
│   ├── list_bbox_celeba.txt
│   └── list_landmarks_celeba.txt
├── Eval
│   └── list_eval_partition.txt
└── Img
    └── img_celeba
        ├── 000001.jpg
        ├── 000002.jpg
        ├── 000003.jpg
        ├── 000004.jpg
        ├── 000005.jpg
        └── ...
```

`identity_CelebA.txt` file contains labels.
`list_attr_celeba.txt` file contains attributes.
`list_bbox_celeba.txt` file contains bounding boxes.
`list_landmarks_celeba.txt` file contains landmarks.
`list_eval_partition.txt` file contains subsets.

The original CelebA dataset stores images in .7z archive. The archive
needs to be unpacked before importing.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an CelebA dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports labels, bounding boxes or landmarks.

There are several ways to convert an CelebA dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f celeba <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f imagenet_txt -o ./save_dir -- --save-images
# or
datum convert -if celeba -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f imagenet_txt -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'celeba')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_celeba_format.py)

Commit message:

add info about align images

site/content/en/docs/formats/celeba.md, after:

---
title: 'CelebA'
linkTitle: 'CelebA'
description: ''
weight: 1
---

## Format specification

The original CelebA dataset is available
[here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B7EVK8r0v71pWEZsZE9oNnFzTm8?resourcekey=0-5BR16BdXnb8hVj6CNHKzLg).

Supported annotation types:
- `Label`
- `Bbox`
- `Points` (landmarks)

Supported attributes: `5_o_Clock_Shadow`, `Arched_Eyebrows`, `Attractive`,
`Bags_Under_Eyes`, `Bald`, `Bangs`, `Big_Lips`, `Big_Nose`, `Black_Hair`,
`Blond_Hair`, `Blurry Brown_Hair`, `Bushy_Eyebrows`, `Chubby`, `Double_Chin`,
`Eyeglasses`, `Goatee`, `Gray_Hair`, `Heavy_Makeup`, `High_Cheekbones`,
`Male`, `Mouth_Slightly_Open`, `Mustache Narrow_Eyes`, `No_Beard`, `Oval_Face`,
`Pale_Skin`, `Pointy_Nose`, `Receding_Hairline`, `Rosy_Cheeks`, `Sideburns Smiling`,
`Straight_Hair`, `Wavy_Hair`, `Wearing_Earrings`, `Wearing_Hat`, `Wearing_Lipstick`,
`Wearing_Necklace`, `Wearing_Necktie`, `Young`.
Attributes take values: `1` represents positive, `-1` represents negative.

## Import CelebA dataset

A Datumaro project with an CelebA source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format celeba <path/to/dataset>
```

It is also possible to import the dataset using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

celeba_dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'celeba')
```

CelebA dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── Anno
│   ├── identity_CelebA.txt
│   ├── list_attr_celeba.txt
│   ├── list_bbox_celeba.txt
│   └── list_landmarks_celeba.txt
├── Eval
│   └── list_eval_partition.txt
└── Img
    └── img_celeba
        ├── 000001.jpg
        ├── 000002.jpg
        ├── 000003.jpg
        ├── 000004.jpg
        ├── 000005.jpg
        └── ...
```

`identity_CelebA.txt` file contains labels (required).
`list_attr_celeba.txt` file contains attributes (optional).
`list_bbox_celeba.txt` file contains bounding boxes (optional).
`list_landmarks_celeba.txt` file contains landmarks (optional).
`list_eval_partition.txt` file contains subsets (optional).

The original CelebA dataset stores images in .7z archive. The archive
needs to be unpacked before importing.

It is not possible to import both regular images and images with alignment.
If you need to work with aligned images and landmarks, you need to remove
the usual images and annotations to them from the folder.\

CelebA align dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
dataset/
├── Anno
│   ├── identity_CelebA.txt
│   ├── list_attr_celeba.txt
│   └── list_landmarks_align_celeba.txt
├── Eval
│   └── list_eval_partition.txt
└── Img
    └── img_align_celeba
        ├── 000001.jpg
        ├── 000002.jpg
        ├── 000003.jpg
        ├── 000004.jpg
        ├── 000005.jpg
        └── ...
```

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert an CelebA dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to a format
that supports labels, bounding boxes or landmarks.

There are several ways to convert an CelebA dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f celeba <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f imagenet_txt -o ./save_dir -- --save-images
# or
datum convert -if celeba -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f imagenet_txt -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'celeba')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc')
```

## Examples

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/develop/tests/test_celeba_format.py)
