site/content/en/docs/formats/cityscapes.md, before:

---
title: 'Cityscapes'
linkTitle: 'Cityscapes'
description: ''
weight: 2
---

## Format specification

Cityscapes format overview is available [here](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/dataset-overview/).

Cityscapes format specification is available [here](https://github.com/mcordts/cityscapesScripts#the-cityscapes-dataset).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `is_crowd` (boolean). Specifies if the annotation label can
  distinguish between different instances.
  If `False`, the annotation `id` field encodes the instance id.

## Import Cityscapes dataset

The Cityscapes dataset is available for free [download](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/downloads/).

A Datumaro project with a Cityscapes source can be created in the following way:

``` bash
datum create
datum import --format cityscapes <path/to/dataset>
```

Cityscapes dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
└─ Dataset/
    ├── imgsFine/
    │   ├── leftImg8bit
    │   │   ├── <split: train,val, ...>
    │   │   |   ├── {city1}
    │   │   │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_leftImg8bit.png
    │   │   │   │   └── ...
    │   │   |   ├── {city2}
    │   │   │   └── ...
    │   │   └── ...
    └── gtFine/
        ├── <split: train,val, ...>
        │   ├── {city1}
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_color.png
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_instanceIds.png
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_labelIds.png
        │   │   └── ...
        │   ├── {city2}
        │   └── ...
        └── ...
```

Annotated files description:
1. `*_leftImg8bit.png` - left images in 8-bit LDR format
1. `*_color.png` - class labels encoded by its color
1. `*_labelIds.png` - class labels are encoded by its index
1. `*_instanceIds.png` - class and instance labels encoded by an instance ID.
  The pixel values encode class and the individual instance: the integer part
  of a division by 1000 of each ID provides class ID, the remainder
  is the instance ID. If a certain annotation describes multiple instances,
  then the pixels have the regular ID of that class

To make sure that the selected dataset has been added to the project, you can
run `datum project info`, which will display the project information.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert a Cityscapes dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to formats
that support the segmentation task (e.g. PascalVOC, CamVID, etc.)

There are several ways to convert a Cityscapes dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

``` bash
datum create
datum import -f cityscapes <path/to/cityscapes>
datum export -f voc -o <output/dir>
# or
datum convert -if cityscapes -i <path/to/cityscapes> \
    -f voc -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'cityscapes')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc', save_images=True)
```

## Export to Cityscapes

There are several ways to convert a dataset to Cityscapes format:

``` bash
# export dataset into Cityscapes format from existing project
datum export -p <path/to/project> -f cityscapes -o <output/dir> \
    -- --save-images
# converting to Cityscapes format from other format
datum convert -if voc -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f cityscapes -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Extra options for exporting to Cityscapes format:
- `--save-images` allow to export dataset with saving images
  (by default `False`)
- `--image-ext IMAGE_EXT` allow to specify image extension
  for exporting dataset (by default - keep original or use `.png`, if none)
- `--label_map` allow to define a custom colormap. Example:

``` bash
# mycolormap.txt :
# 0 0 255 sky
# 255 0 0 person
#...
datum export -f cityscapes -- --label-map mycolormap.txt

# or you can use original cityscapes colomap:
datum export -f cityscapes -- --label-map cityscapes
```

## Examples

Datumaro supports filtering, transformation, merging etc. for all formats
and for the Cityscapes format in particular. Follow the
[user manual](/docs/user-manual/)
to get more information about these operations.

There are several examples of using Datumaro operations to solve
particular problems with a Cityscapes dataset:

### Example 1. Load the original Cityscapes dataset and convert to Pascal VOC

```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f cityscapes ./Cityscapes/
datum stats -p project
datum export -p project -o dataset/ -f voc -- --save-images
```

### Example 2. Create a custom Cityscapes-like dataset

```python
import numpy as np
from datumaro.components.annotation import Mask
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import DatasetItem

import datumaro.plugins.cityscapes_format as Cityscapes

label_map = OrderedDict()
label_map['background'] = (0, 0, 0)
label_map['label_1'] = (1, 2, 3)
label_map['label_2'] = (3, 2, 1)
categories = Cityscapes.make_cityscapes_categories(label_map)

dataset = Dataset.from_iterable([
  DatasetItem(id=1,
    image=np.ones((1, 5, 3)),
    annotations=[
      Mask(image=np.array([[1, 0, 0, 1, 1]]), label=1),
      Mask(image=np.array([[0, 1, 1, 0, 0]]), label=2, id=2,
        attributes={'is_crowd': False}),
    ]
  ),
], categories=categories)

dataset.export('./dataset', format='cityscapes')
```

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/test_cityscapes_format.py)

Commit message:

Dataset meta file for some formats (Cityscapes, ImageNet Txt, Pascal VOC and WiderFace) (#553)
* add Accuracy Checker meta file support in import and export

* updated docs

* updated changelog

site/content/en/docs/formats/cityscapes.md, after:

---
title: 'Cityscapes'
linkTitle: 'Cityscapes'
description: ''
weight: 2
---

## Format specification

Cityscapes format overview is available [here](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/dataset-overview/).

Cityscapes format specification is available [here](https://github.com/mcordts/cityscapesScripts#the-cityscapes-dataset).

Supported annotation types:
- `Masks`

Supported annotation attributes:
- `is_crowd` (boolean). Specifies if the annotation label can
  distinguish between different instances.
  If `False`, the annotation `id` field encodes the instance id.

## Import Cityscapes dataset

The Cityscapes dataset is available for free [download](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/downloads/).

A Datumaro project with a Cityscapes source can be created in the following way:

``` bash
datum create
datum import --format cityscapes <path/to/dataset>
```

Cityscapes dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
└─ Dataset/
    ├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-Pascal labels (optional)
    ├── label_colors.txt # a list of non-Pascal labels in other format (optional)
    ├── imgsFine/
    │   ├── leftImg8bit
    │   │   ├── <split: train,val, ...>
    │   │   |   ├── {city1}
    │   │   │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_leftImg8bit.png
    │   │   │   │   └── ...
    │   │   |   ├── {city2}
    │   │   │   └── ...
    │   │   └── ...
    └── gtFine/
        ├── <split: train,val, ...>
        │   ├── {city1}
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_color.png
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_instanceIds.png
        │   |   ├── {city1}_{seq:[0...6]}_{frame:[0...6]}_gtFine_labelIds.png
        │   │   └── ...
        │   ├── {city2}
        │   └── ...
        └── ...
```

Annotated files description:
1. `*_leftImg8bit.png` - left images in 8-bit LDR format
1. `*_color.png` - class labels encoded by its color
1. `*_labelIds.png` - class labels are encoded by its index
1. `*_instanceIds.png` - class and instance labels encoded by an instance ID.
  The pixel values encode class and the individual instance: the integer part
  of a division by 1000 of each ID provides class ID, the remainder
  is the instance ID. If a certain annotation describes multiple instances,
  then the pixels have the regular ID of that class

To add unformatted classes, you can use `dataset_meta.json` and `label_colors.txt`.
If the `dataset_meta.json` is not represented in the dataset, then
`label_colors.txt` will be imported if possible.

Information about `dataset_meta.json` can be found [here](/docs/user_manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

In `label_colors.txt` you can define custom color map and non-cityscapes labels,
for example:

```
# label_colors [color_rgb name]
0 124 134 elephant
```

To make sure that the selected dataset has been added to the project, you can
run `datum project info`, which will display the project information.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert a Cityscapes dataset into any other format [Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
To get the expected result, convert the dataset to formats
that support the segmentation task (e.g. PascalVOC, CamVID, etc.)

There are several ways to convert a Cityscapes dataset to other dataset
formats using CLI:

``` bash
datum create
datum import -f cityscapes <path/to/cityscapes>
datum export -f voc -o <output/dir>
# or
datum convert -if cityscapes -i <path/to/cityscapes> \
    -f voc -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset

dataset = Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'cityscapes')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'voc', save_images=True)
```

## Export to Cityscapes

There are several ways to convert a dataset to Cityscapes format:

``` bash
# export dataset into Cityscapes format from existing project
datum export -p <path/to/project> -f cityscapes -o <output/dir> \
    -- --save-images
# converting to Cityscapes format from other format
datum convert -if voc -i <path/to/dataset> \
    -f cityscapes -o <output/dir> -- --save-images
```

Extra options for exporting to Cityscapes format:
- `--save-images` allow to export dataset with saving images
  (by default `False`)
- `--image-ext IMAGE_EXT` allow to specify image extension
  for exporting dataset (by default - keep original or use `.png`, if none)
- `--save-meta-file` - allow to export dataset with saving dataset meta
  file (by default `False`)
- `--label_map` allow to define a custom colormap. Example:

``` bash
# mycolormap.txt :
# 0 0 255 sky
# 255 0 0 person
#...
datum export -f cityscapes -- --label-map mycolormap.txt

# or you can use original cityscapes colomap:
datum export -f cityscapes -- --label-map cityscapes
```

## Examples

Datumaro supports filtering, transformation, merging etc. for all formats
and for the Cityscapes format in particular. Follow the
[user manual](/docs/user-manual/)
to get more information about these operations.

There are several examples of using Datumaro operations to solve
particular problems with a Cityscapes dataset:

### Example 1. Load the original Cityscapes dataset and convert to Pascal VOC

```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f cityscapes ./Cityscapes/
datum stats -p project
datum export -p project -o dataset/ -f voc -- --save-images
```

### Example 2. Create a custom Cityscapes-like dataset

```python
import numpy as np
from datumaro.components.annotation import Mask
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import DatasetItem

import datumaro.plugins.cityscapes_format as Cityscapes

label_map = OrderedDict()
label_map['background'] = (0, 0, 0)
label_map['label_1'] = (1, 2, 3)
label_map['label_2'] = (3, 2, 1)
categories = Cityscapes.make_cityscapes_categories(label_map)

dataset = Dataset.from_iterable([
  DatasetItem(id=1,
    image=np.ones((1, 5, 3)),
    annotations=[
      Mask(image=np.array([[1, 0, 0, 1, 1]]), label=1),
      Mask(image=np.array([[0, 1, 1, 0, 0]]), label=2, id=2,
        attributes={'is_crowd': False}),
    ]
  ),
], categories=categories)

dataset.export('./dataset', format='cityscapes')
```

Examples of using this format from the code can be found in
[the format tests](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/test_cityscapes_format.py)
