site/content/en/docs/formats/yolo.md, before:

---
title: 'YOLO'
linkTitle: 'YOLO'
description: ''
weight: 11
---

## Format specification

The YOLO dataset format is for training and validating object detection
models. Specification for this format is available
[here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-to-detect-your-custom-objects).

You can also find official examples of working with YOLO dataset [here](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/).

Supported annotation types:
- `Bounding boxes`

YOLO format doesn't support attributes for annotations.

The format only supports subsets named `train` or `valid`.

## Import YOLO dataset

A Datumaro project with a YOLO source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format yolo <path/to/dataset>
```

YOLO dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
└─ yolo_dataset/
   │
   ├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
   ├── obj.names  # file with list of classes
   ├── obj.data   # file with dataset information
   ├── train.txt  # list of image paths in train subset
   ├── valid.txt  # list of image paths in valid subset
   │
   ├── obj_train_data/  # directory with annotations and images for train subset
   │    ├── image1.txt  # list of labeled bounding boxes for image1
   │    ├── image1.jpg
   │    ├── image2.txt
   │    ├── image2.jpg
   │    └── ...
   │
   └── obj_valid_data/  # directory with annotations and images for valid subset
        ├── image101.txt
        ├── image101.jpg
        ├── image102.txt
        ├── image102.jpg
        └── ...
```
> YOLO dataset cannot contain a subset with a name other than `train` or `valid`.
  If an imported dataset contains such subsets, they will be ignored.
  If you are exporting a project into YOLO format,
  all subsets different from `train` and `valid` will be skipped.
  If there is no subset separation in a project, the data
  will be saved in `train` subset.

- `obj.data` should have the following content, it is not necessary to have both
  subsets, but necessary to have one of them:
``` txt
classes = 5 # optional
names = <path/to/obj.names>
train = <path/to/train.txt>
valid = <path/to/valid.txt>
backup = backup/ # optional
```
- `obj.names` contains a list of classes.
The line number for the class is the same as its index:
``` txt
label1  # label1 has index 0
label2  # label2 has index 1
label3  # label2 has index 2
...
```
- Files `train.txt` and `valid.txt` should have the following structure:
``` txt
<path/to/image1.jpg>
<path/to/image2.jpg>
...
```
- Files in directories `obj_train_data/` and `obj_valid_data/`
should contain information about labeled bounding boxes
for images:
``` txt
# image1.txt:
# <label_index> <x_center> <y_center> <width> <height>
0 0.250000 0.400000 0.300000 0.400000
3 0.600000 0.400000 0.400000 0.266667
```
Here `x_center`, `y_center`, `width`, and `height` are relative to the image's
width and height. The `x_center` and `y_center` are center of rectangle
(are not top-left corner).

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert YOLO dataset into any other format
[Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
For successful conversion the output format should support
object detection task (e.g. Pascal VOC, COCO, TF Detection API etc.)

There are several ways to convert a YOLO dataset to other dataset formats:

```bash
datum create
datum add -f yolo <path/to/yolo/>
datum export -f voc -o <output/dir>
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if yolo -i <path/to/dataset> \
              -f coco_instances -o <path/to/dataset>
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'yolo')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'coco_instances', save_media=True)
```

## Export to YOLO format

Datumaro can convert an existing dataset to YOLO format,
if the dataset supports object detection task.

Example:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f coco_instances <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f yolo -o <path/to/dataset> -- --save-media
```

Extra options for exporting to YOLO format:
- `--save-media` allow to export dataset with saving media files
  (default: `False`)
- `--image-ext <IMAGE_EXT>` allow to specify image extension
  for exporting dataset (default: use original or `.jpg`, if none)
- `--add-path-prefix` allows to specify, whether to include the
  `data/` path prefix in the annotation files or not (default: `True`)

## Examples

### Example 1. Prepare PASCAL VOC dataset for exporting to YOLO format dataset

```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f voc ./VOC2012
datum filter -p project -e '/item[subset="train" or subset="val"]'
datum transform -p project -t map_subsets -- -s train:train -s val:valid
datum export -p project -f yolo -- --save-media
```

### Example 2. Remove a class from YOLO dataset
Delete all items, which contain `cat` objects and remove
`cat` from list of classes:
```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f yolo ./yolo_dataset
datum filter -p project -m i+a -e '/item/annotation[label!="cat"]'
datum transform -p project -t remap_labels -- -l cat:
datum export -p project -f yolo -o ./yolo_without_cats
```

### Example 3. Create a custom dataset in YOLO format
```python
import numpy as np
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.from_iterable([
    dm.DatasetItem(id='image_001', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((20, 20, 3)),
        annotations=[
            dm.Bbox(3.0, 1.0, 8.0, 5.0, label=1),
            dm.Bbox(1.0, 1.0, 10.0, 1.0, label=2)
        ]
    ),
    dm.DatasetItem(id='image_002', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((15, 10, 3)),
        annotations=[
            dm.Bbox(4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, label=3)
        ]
    )
], categories=['house', 'bridge', 'crosswalk', 'traffic_light'])

dataset.export('../yolo_dataset', format='yolo', save_media=True)
```

### Example 4. Get information about objects on each image

If you only want information about label names for each
image, then you can get it from code:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('./yolo_dataset', format='yolo')
cats = dataset.categories()[dm.AnnotationType.label]

for item in dataset:
    for ann in item.annotations:
        print(item.id, cats[ann.label].name)
```

And If you want complete information about each item you can run:
```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f yolo ./yolo_dataset
datum filter -p project --dry-run -e '/item'
```

Commit message:

Allow custom subset names in YOLO (#688)
* Allowed custom subset names in YOLO import and export, except classes, names and backup

* Exporting a subset with a reserved name now leads to an export error

* Add a test for failing export with a reserved subset name

* Replaced save-images with save-media in CLI tests

site/content/en/docs/formats/yolo.md, after:

---
title: 'YOLO'
linkTitle: 'YOLO'
description: ''
weight: 11
---

## Format specification

The YOLO dataset format is for training and validating object detection
models. Specification for this format is available
[here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-to-detect-your-custom-objects).

You can also find official examples of working with YOLO dataset [here](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/).

Supported annotation types:
- `Bounding boxes`

YOLO format doesn't support attributes for annotations.

The format supports arbitrary subset names, except `classes`, `names` and `backup`.

> Note, that by default, the YOLO framework does not expect any subset names,
  except `train` and `valid`, Datumaro supports this as an extension.
  If there is no subset separation in a project, the data
  will be saved in the `train` subset.

## Import YOLO dataset

A Datumaro project with a YOLO source can be created in the following way:

```bash
datum create
datum import --format yolo <path/to/dataset>
```

YOLO dataset directory should have the following structure:

<!--lint disable fenced-code-flag-->
```
└─ yolo_dataset/
   │
   ├── dataset_meta.json # a list of non-format labels (optional)
   ├── obj.names  # file with list of classes
   ├── obj.data   # file with dataset information
   ├── train.txt  # list of image paths in train subset
   ├── valid.txt  # list of image paths in valid subset
   │
   ├── obj_train_data/  # directory with annotations and images for train subset
   │    ├── image1.txt  # list of labeled bounding boxes for image1
   │    ├── image1.jpg
   │    ├── image2.txt
   │    ├── image2.jpg
   │    └── ...
   │
   └── obj_valid_data/  # directory with annotations and images for valid subset
        ├── image101.txt
        ├── image101.jpg
        ├── image102.txt
        ├── image102.jpg
        └── ...
```

- `obj.data` should have the following content, it is not necessary to have both
  subsets, but necessary to have one of them:
``` txt
classes = 5 # optional
names = <path/to/obj.names>
train = <path/to/train.txt>
valid = <path/to/valid.txt>
backup = backup/ # optional
```
- `obj.names` contains a list of classes.
The line number for the class is the same as its index:
``` txt
label1  # label1 has index 0
label2  # label2 has index 1
label3  # label2 has index 2
...
```
- Files `train.txt` and `valid.txt` should have the following structure:
``` txt
<path/to/image1.jpg>
<path/to/image2.jpg>
...
```
- Files in directories `obj_train_data/` and `obj_valid_data/`
should contain information about labeled bounding boxes
for images:
``` txt
# image1.txt:
# <label_index> <x_center> <y_center> <width> <height>
0 0.250000 0.400000 0.300000 0.400000
3 0.600000 0.400000 0.400000 0.266667
```
Here `x_center`, `y_center`, `width`, and `height` are relative to the image's
width and height. The `x_center` and `y_center` are center of rectangle
(are not top-left corner).

To add custom classes, you can use [`dataset_meta.json`](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/#dataset-meta-file).

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert YOLO dataset into any other format
[Datumaro supports](/docs/user-manual/supported_formats/).
For successful conversion the output format should support
object detection task (e.g. Pascal VOC, COCO, TF Detection API etc.)

There are several ways to convert a YOLO dataset to other dataset formats:

```bash
datum create
datum add -f yolo <path/to/yolo/>
datum export -f voc -o <output/dir>
```
or
``` bash
datum convert -if yolo -i <path/to/dataset> \
              -f coco_instances -o <path/to/dataset>
```

Or, using Python API:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('<path/to/dataset>', 'yolo')
dataset.export('save_dir', 'coco_instances', save_media=True)
```

## Export to YOLO format

Datumaro can convert an existing dataset to YOLO format,
if the dataset supports object detection task.

Example:

```bash
datum create
datum import -f coco_instances <path/to/dataset>
datum export -f yolo -o <path/to/dataset> -- --save-media
```

Extra options for exporting to YOLO format:
- `--save-media` allow to export dataset with saving media files
  (default: `False`)
- `--image-ext <IMAGE_EXT>` allow to specify image extension
  for exporting dataset (default: use original or `.jpg`, if none)
- `--add-path-prefix` allows to specify, whether to include the
  `data/` path prefix in the annotation files or not (default: `True`)

## Examples

### Example 1. Prepare PASCAL VOC dataset for exporting to YOLO format dataset

```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f voc ./VOC2012
datum filter -p project -e '/item[subset="train" or subset="val"]'
datum transform -p project -t map_subsets -- -s train:train -s val:valid
datum export -p project -f yolo -- --save-media
```

### Example 2. Remove a class from YOLO dataset
Delete all items, which contain `cat` objects and remove
`cat` from list of classes:
```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f yolo ./yolo_dataset
datum filter -p project -m i+a -e '/item/annotation[label!="cat"]'
datum transform -p project -t remap_labels -- -l cat:
datum export -p project -f yolo -o ./yolo_without_cats
```

### Example 3. Create a custom dataset in YOLO format
```python
import numpy as np
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.from_iterable([
    dm.DatasetItem(id='image_001', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((20, 20, 3)),
        annotations=[
            dm.Bbox(3.0, 1.0, 8.0, 5.0, label=1),
            dm.Bbox(1.0, 1.0, 10.0, 1.0, label=2)
        ]
    ),
    dm.DatasetItem(id='image_002', subset='train',
        image=np.ones((15, 10, 3)),
        annotations=[
            dm.Bbox(4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, label=3)
        ]
    )
], categories=['house', 'bridge', 'crosswalk', 'traffic_light'])

dataset.export('../yolo_dataset', format='yolo', save_media=True)
```

### Example 4. Get information about objects on each image

If you only want information about label names for each
image, then you can get it from code:

```python
import datumaro as dm

dataset = dm.Dataset.import_from('./yolo_dataset', format='yolo')
cats = dataset.categories()[dm.AnnotationType.label]

for item in dataset:
    for ann in item.annotations:
        print(item.id, cats[ann.label].name)
```

And If you want complete information about each item you can run:
```bash
datum create -o project
datum import -p project -f yolo ./yolo_dataset
datum filter -p project --dry-run -e '/item'
```
