site/content/en/docs/contributing.md, before:

---
title: 'Contribution Guide'
linkTitle: 'Contributing'
description: ''
weight: 50
---

## Related sections:

- [Design document](/docs/design/)
- [Developer manual](/api/api/developer_manual.html)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python (3.7+)

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro
```

Optionally, install a virtual environment (recommended):

``` bash
python -m pip install virtualenv
python -m virtualenv venv
. venv/bin/activate
```

Then install all dependencies:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install Datumaro:
``` bash
pip install -e /path/to/the/cloned/repo/
```

**Optional dependencies**

These components are only required for plugins and not installed by default:

- OpenVINO
- Accuracy Checker
- TensorFlow
- PyTorch
- MxNet
- Caffe

## Usage

``` bash
datum --help
python -m datumaro --help
python datumaro/ --help
python datum.py --help
```

``` python
import datumaro
```

## Code style

Try to be readable and consistent with the existing codebase.

The project uses Black for code formatting and isort for sorting import statements.
You can find corresponding configurations in `pyproject.toml` in the repository root.
No trailing whitespaces, at most 100 characters per line.

## Environment

The recommended editor is VS Code with the Python language plugin.

## Testing <a id="testing"></a>

It is expected that all Datumaro functionality is covered and checked by
unit tests. Tests are placed in the `tests/` directory. Additional
pre-generated files for tests can be stored in the `tests/assets/` directory.
CLI tests are separated from the core tests, they are stored in the
`tests/cli/` directory.

Currently, we use [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/) for testing.

To run tests use:

``` bash
pytest -v
```
or
``` bash
python -m pytest -v
```

### Test cases <a id="Test_case_description"></a>

### Test marking <a id="Test_marking"></a>

For better integration with CI and requirements tracking,
we use special annotations for tests.

A test needs to linked with a requirement it is related to. To link a
test, use:

```python
from unittest import TestCase
from .requirements import Requirements, mark_requirement

class MyTests(TestCase):
    @mark_requirement(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
    def test_my_requirement(self):
        ... do stuff ...
```

Such marking will apply markings from the requirement specified.
They can be overridden for a specific test:

```python
import pytest

class MyTests(TestCase):
    @pytest.mark.priority_low
    @mark_requirement(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
    def test_my_requirement(self):
        ... do stuff ...
```

#### Requirements <a id="Requirements"></a>

Requirements and other links need to be added to [`tests/requirements.py`](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/requirements.py):

```python
DATUM_244 = "Add Snyk integration"
DATUM_BUG_219 = "Return format is not uniform"
```

```python
# Fully defined in GitHub issues:
@pytest.mark.reqids(Requirements.DATUM_244, Requirements.DATUM_333)

# And defined any other way:
@pytest.mark.reqids(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
```


##### Available annotations for tests and requirements

Markings are defined in [`tests/conftest.py`](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/conftest.py).

**A list of requirements and bugs**
```python
@pytest.mark.requids(Requirements.DATUM_123)
@pytest.mark.bugs(Requirements.DATUM_BUG_456)
```

**A priority**
```python
@pytest.mark.priority_low
@pytest.mark.priority_medium
@pytest.mark.priority_high
```

**Component**
The marking used for indication of different system components

```python
@pytest.mark.components(DatumaroComponent.Datumaro)
```

**Skipping tests**

```python
@pytest.mark.skip(SkipMessages.NOT_IMPLEMENTED)
```

**Parametrized runs**

Parameters are used for running the same test with different parameters e.g.

```python
@pytest.mark.parametrize("numpy_array, batch_size", [
    (np.zeros([2]), 0),
    (np.zeros([2]), 1),
    (np.zeros([2]), 2),
    (np.zeros([2]), 5),
    (np.zeros([5]), 2),
])
```

### Test documentation <a id="TestDoc"></a>

Tests are documented with docs strings. Test descriptions must contain
the following: sections: `Description`, `Expected results` and `Steps`.

```python
def test_can_convert_polygons_to_mask(self):
    """
    <b>Description:</b>
    Ensure that the dataset polygon annotation can be properly converted
    into dataset segmentation mask.

    <b>Expected results:</b>
    Dataset segmentation mask converted from dataset polygon annotation
    is equal to an expected mask.

    <b>Steps:</b>
    1. Prepare dataset with polygon annotation
    2. Prepare dataset with expected mask segmentation mode
    3. Convert source dataset to target, with conversion of annotation
      from polygon to mask.
    4. Verify that resulting segmentation mask is equal to the expected mask.
    """
```

Commit message:

Add a pre-commit hook for developers (#691)
* Add a pre-commit hook for developers

It will help to remind people to format their code before committing.

This also establishes `dev` as a directory for developer-oriented scripts.

* dev/pre-commit.py: suppress bandit warnings

All inputs to subprocess come from our own repository, so there should not be
any security problems here.

site/content/en/docs/contributing.md, after:

---
title: 'Contribution Guide'
linkTitle: 'Contributing'
description: ''
weight: 50
---

## Related sections:

- [Design document](/docs/design/)
- [Developer manual](/api/api/developer_manual.html)

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python (3.7+)

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro
```

Optionally, install a virtual environment (recommended):

``` bash
python -m pip install virtualenv
python -m virtualenv venv
. venv/bin/activate
```

Then install all dependencies:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install Datumaro:
``` bash
pip install -e /path/to/the/cloned/repo/
```

**Optional dependencies**

These components are only required for plugins and not installed by default:

- OpenVINO
- Accuracy Checker
- TensorFlow
- PyTorch
- MxNet
- Caffe

## Usage

``` bash
datum --help
python -m datumaro --help
python datumaro/ --help
python datum.py --help
```

``` python
import datumaro
```

## Code style

Try to be readable and consistent with the existing codebase.

The project uses Black for code formatting and isort for sorting import statements.
You can find corresponding configurations in `pyproject.toml` in the repository root.
No trailing whitespaces, at most 100 characters per line.

Datumaro includes a Git pre-commit hook, `dev/pre-commit.py` that can help you
follow the style requirements. See the comment at the top of that file for more information.

## Environment

The recommended editor is VS Code with the Python language plugin.

## Testing <a id="testing"></a>

It is expected that all Datumaro functionality is covered and checked by
unit tests. Tests are placed in the `tests/` directory. Additional
pre-generated files for tests can be stored in the `tests/assets/` directory.
CLI tests are separated from the core tests, they are stored in the
`tests/cli/` directory.

Currently, we use [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/) for testing.

To run tests use:

``` bash
pytest -v
```
or
``` bash
python -m pytest -v
```

### Test cases <a id="Test_case_description"></a>

### Test marking <a id="Test_marking"></a>

For better integration with CI and requirements tracking,
we use special annotations for tests.

A test needs to linked with a requirement it is related to. To link a
test, use:

```python
from unittest import TestCase
from .requirements import Requirements, mark_requirement

class MyTests(TestCase):
    @mark_requirement(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
    def test_my_requirement(self):
        ... do stuff ...
```

Such marking will apply markings from the requirement specified.
They can be overridden for a specific test:

```python
import pytest

class MyTests(TestCase):
    @pytest.mark.priority_low
    @mark_requirement(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
    def test_my_requirement(self):
        ... do stuff ...
```

#### Requirements <a id="Requirements"></a>

Requirements and other links need to be added to [`tests/requirements.py`](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/requirements.py):

```python
DATUM_244 = "Add Snyk integration"
DATUM_BUG_219 = "Return format is not uniform"
```

```python
# Fully defined in GitHub issues:
@pytest.mark.reqids(Requirements.DATUM_244, Requirements.DATUM_333)

# And defined any other way:
@pytest.mark.reqids(Requirements.DATUM_GENERAL_REQ)
```


##### Available annotations for tests and requirements

Markings are defined in [`tests/conftest.py`](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/tree/develop/tests/conftest.py).

**A list of requirements and bugs**
```python
@pytest.mark.requids(Requirements.DATUM_123)
@pytest.mark.bugs(Requirements.DATUM_BUG_456)
```

**A priority**
```python
@pytest.mark.priority_low
@pytest.mark.priority_medium
@pytest.mark.priority_high
```

**Component**
The marking used for indication of different system components

```python
@pytest.mark.components(DatumaroComponent.Datumaro)
```

**Skipping tests**

```python
@pytest.mark.skip(SkipMessages.NOT_IMPLEMENTED)
```

**Parametrized runs**

Parameters are used for running the same test with different parameters e.g.

```python
@pytest.mark.parametrize("numpy_array, batch_size", [
    (np.zeros([2]), 0),
    (np.zeros([2]), 1),
    (np.zeros([2]), 2),
    (np.zeros([2]), 5),
    (np.zeros([5]), 2),
])
```

### Test documentation <a id="TestDoc"></a>

Tests are documented with docs strings. Test descriptions must contain
the following: sections: `Description`, `Expected results` and `Steps`.

```python
def test_can_convert_polygons_to_mask(self):
    """
    <b>Description:</b>
    Ensure that the dataset polygon annotation can be properly converted
    into dataset segmentation mask.

    <b>Expected results:</b>
    Dataset segmentation mask converted from dataset polygon annotation
    is equal to an expected mask.

    <b>Steps:</b>
    1. Prepare dataset with polygon annotation
    2. Prepare dataset with expected mask segmentation mode
    3. Convert source dataset to target, with conversion of annotation
      from polygon to mask.
    4. Verify that resulting segmentation mask is equal to the expected mask.
    """
```
