docs/formats/open_images_user_manual.md, before:

# Open Images user manual

## Contents

- [Format specification](#format-specification)
- [Load Open Images dataset](#load-open-images-dataset)
- [Export to other formats](#export-to-other-formats)
- [Export to Open Images](#export-to-open-images)
- [Particular use cases](#particular-use-cases)

## Format specification

A description of the Open Images Dataset (OID) format is available
on [its website](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/web/download.html).
Datumaro supports versions 4, 5 and 6.

Datumaro currently supports only the human-verified image-level label
annotations from this dataset.

## Load Open Images dataset

The Open Images dataset is available for free download.

See the [`open-images-dataset` GitHub repository](https://github.com/cvdfoundation/open-images-dataset)
for information on how to download the images.

Datumaro also requires the image description files,
which can be downloaded from the following URLs:

- [complete set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/image_ids_and_rotation.csv)
- [train set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-train-images-with-labels-with-rotation.csv)
- [validation set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/validation/validation-images-with-rotation.csv)
- [test set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/test/test-images-with-rotation.csv)

Datumaro expects at least one of the files above to be present.

In addition, the following metadata file must be present as well:

- [class descriptions](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-class-descriptions.csv)

You can optionally download the following additional metadata file:

- [class hierarchy](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/bbox_labels_600_hierarchy.json)

Annotations can be downloaded from the following URLs:

- [train image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-train-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)
- [validation image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/validation-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)
- [test image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/test-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)

The annotations are optional.

There are two ways to create Datumaro project and add OID to it:

``` bash
datum import --format open_images --input-path <path/to/dataset>
# or
datum create
datum add path -f open_images <path/to/dataset>
```

It is possible to specify project name and project directory; run
`datum create --help` for more information.

Open Images dataset directory should have the following structure:

```
└─ Dataset/
    ├── annotations/
    │   └── bbox_labels_600_hierarchy.json
    │   └── image_ids_and_rotation.csv
    │   └── oidv6-class-descriptions.csv
    │   └── *-human-imagelabels.csv
    └── images/
        ├── test
        │   ├── <image_name1.jpg>
        │   ├── <image_name2.jpg>
        │   └── ...
        ├── train
        │   ├── <image_name1.jpg>
        │   ├── <image_name2.jpg>
        │   └── ...
        └── validation
            ├── <image_name1.jpg>
            ├── <image_name2.jpg>
            └── ...
```

To use per-subset image description files instead of `image_ids_and_rotation.csv`,
place them in the `annotations` subdirectory.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert OID into any other format [Datumaro supports](../user_manual.md#supported-formats).
To get the expected result, the dataset needs to be converted to a format
that supports image-level labels.
There are a few ways to convert OID to other dataset format:

``` bash
datum project import -f open_images -i <path/to/open_images>
datum export -f cvat -o <path/to/output/dir>
# or
datum convert -if open_images -i <path/to/open_images> -f cvat -o <path/to/output/dir>
```

Some formats provide extra options for conversion.
These options are passed after double dash (`--`) in the command line.
To get information about them, run

`datum export -f <FORMAT> -- -h`

## Export to Open Images

There are few ways to convert an existing dataset to the Open Images format:

``` bash
# export dataset into Open Images format from existing project
datum export -p <path/to/project> -f open_images -o <path/to/export/dir> \
  -- --save_images

# convert a dataset in another format to the Open Images format
datum convert -if imagenet -i <path/to/imagenet/dataset> \
    -f open_images -o <path/to/export/dir> \
    -- --save-images
```

Extra options for export to the Open Images format:

- `--save-images` - save image files when exporting the dataset
  (by default, `False`)

- `--image-ext IMAGE_EXT` - save image files with the speficied extension
  when exporting the dataset (by default, uses the original extension
  or `.jpg` if there isn't one)

## Particular use cases

Datumaro supports filtering, transformation, merging etc. for all formats
and for the Open Images format in particular. Follow
[user manual](../user_manual.md)
to get more information about these operations.

Here are a few examples of using Datumaro operations to solve
particular problems with the Open Images dataset:

### Example 1. How to load the Open Images dataset and convert to the format used by CVAT

```bash
datum create -o project
datum add path -p project -f open_images ./open-images-dataset/
datum stats -p project
datum export -p project -o dataset -f cvat --overwrite -- --save-images
```

### Example 2. How to create a custom OID-like dataset

```python
import numpy as np
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import (
    AnnotationType, Label, LabelCategories, DatasetItem,
)

dataset = Dataset.from_iterable(
    [
        DatasetItem(
            id='0000000000000001',
            image=np.ones((1, 5, 3)),
            subset='validation',
            annotations=[
                Label(0, attributes={'score': 1}),
                Label(1, attributes={'score': 0}),
            ],
        ),
    ],
    categories=['/m/0', '/m/1'],
)
dataset.export('./dataset', format='open_images')
```

More examples of working with OID from code can be found in
[tests](../../tests/test_open_images_format.py).

Commit message:

open_images_format: implement bounding box support

docs/formats/open_images_user_manual.md, after:

# Open Images user manual

## Contents

- [Format specification](#format-specification)
- [Load Open Images dataset](#load-open-images-dataset)
- [Export to other formats](#export-to-other-formats)
- [Export to Open Images](#export-to-open-images)
- [Particular use cases](#particular-use-cases)

## Format specification

A description of the Open Images Dataset (OID) format is available
on [its website](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/web/download.html).
Datumaro supports versions 4, 5 and 6.

Datumaro currently supports only the human-verified image-level label
annotations and bounding box annotations from this dataset.

## Load Open Images dataset

The Open Images dataset is available for free download.

See the [`open-images-dataset` GitHub repository](https://github.com/cvdfoundation/open-images-dataset)
for information on how to download the images.

Datumaro also requires the image description files,
which can be downloaded from the following URLs:

- [complete set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/image_ids_and_rotation.csv)
- [train set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-train-images-with-labels-with-rotation.csv)
- [validation set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/validation/validation-images-with-rotation.csv)
- [test set](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/test/test-images-with-rotation.csv)

Datumaro expects at least one of the files above to be present.

In addition, the following metadata file must be present as well:

- [class descriptions](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-class-descriptions.csv)

You can optionally download the following additional metadata file:

- [class hierarchy](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/2018_04/bbox_labels_600_hierarchy.json)

Annotations can be downloaded from the following URLs:

- [train image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-train-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)
- [validation image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/validation-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)
- [test image labels](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/test-annotations-human-imagelabels.csv)
- [train bounding boxes](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v6/oidv6-train-annotations-bbox.csv)
- [validation bounding boxes](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/validation-annotations-bbox.csv)
- [test bounding boxes](https://storage.googleapis.com/openimages/v5/test-annotations-bbox.csv)

The annotations are optional.

There are two ways to create Datumaro project and add OID to it:

``` bash
datum import --format open_images --input-path <path/to/dataset>
# or
datum create
datum add path -f open_images <path/to/dataset>
```

It is possible to specify project name and project directory; run
`datum create --help` for more information.

Open Images dataset directory should have the following structure:

```
└─ Dataset/
    ├── annotations/
    │   └── bbox_labels_600_hierarchy.json
    │   └── image_ids_and_rotation.csv
    │   └── oidv6-class-descriptions.csv
    │   └── *-human-imagelabels.csv
    └── images/
        ├── test
        │   ├── <image_name1.jpg>
        │   ├── <image_name2.jpg>
        │   └── ...
        ├── train
        │   ├── <image_name1.jpg>
        │   ├── <image_name2.jpg>
        │   └── ...
        └── validation
            ├── <image_name1.jpg>
            ├── <image_name2.jpg>
            └── ...
```

To use per-subset image description files instead of `image_ids_and_rotation.csv`,
place them in the `annotations` subdirectory.

## Export to other formats

Datumaro can convert OID into any other format [Datumaro supports](../user_manual.md#supported-formats).
To get the expected result, the dataset needs to be converted to a format
that supports image-level labels.
There are a few ways to convert OID to other dataset format:

``` bash
datum project import -f open_images -i <path/to/open_images>
datum export -f cvat -o <path/to/output/dir>
# or
datum convert -if open_images -i <path/to/open_images> -f cvat -o <path/to/output/dir>
```

Some formats provide extra options for conversion.
These options are passed after double dash (`--`) in the command line.
To get information about them, run

`datum export -f <FORMAT> -- -h`

## Export to Open Images

There are few ways to convert an existing dataset to the Open Images format:

``` bash
# export dataset into Open Images format from existing project
datum export -p <path/to/project> -f open_images -o <path/to/export/dir> \
  -- --save_images

# convert a dataset in another format to the Open Images format
datum convert -if imagenet -i <path/to/imagenet/dataset> \
    -f open_images -o <path/to/export/dir> \
    -- --save-images
```

Extra options for export to the Open Images format:

- `--save-images` - save image files when exporting the dataset
  (by default, `False`)

- `--image-ext IMAGE_EXT` - save image files with the speficied extension
  when exporting the dataset (by default, uses the original extension
  or `.jpg` if there isn't one)

## Particular use cases

Datumaro supports filtering, transformation, merging etc. for all formats
and for the Open Images format in particular. Follow
[user manual](../user_manual.md)
to get more information about these operations.

Here are a few examples of using Datumaro operations to solve
particular problems with the Open Images dataset:

### Example 1. How to load the Open Images dataset and convert to the format used by CVAT

```bash
datum create -o project
datum add path -p project -f open_images ./open-images-dataset/
datum stats -p project
datum export -p project -o dataset -f cvat --overwrite -- --save-images
```

### Example 2. How to create a custom OID-like dataset

```python
import numpy as np
from datumaro.components.dataset import Dataset
from datumaro.components.extractor import (
    AnnotationType, Label, LabelCategories, DatasetItem,
)

dataset = Dataset.from_iterable(
    [
        DatasetItem(
            id='0000000000000001',
            image=np.ones((1, 5, 3)),
            subset='validation',
            annotations=[
                Label(0, attributes={'score': 1}),
                Label(1, attributes={'score': 0}),
            ],
        ),
    ],
    categories=['/m/0', '/m/1'],
)
dataset.export('./dataset', format='open_images')
```

More examples of working with OID from code can be found in
[tests](../../tests/test_open_images_format.py).
